Having talked about the eye and retina,
the next obvious question is, well, what about the rest of the visual system? Where do things go from the eye? So, the easiest way I think
to introduce this is in terms of what is called
the primary visual pathway. And, Let me explain that
using this diagram. In the simplest terms
the problem with the pathways is just the eye a way station
called the thalamus. We will talk about the details of this
in a minute and the thalamus here, and then there is visual cortex
which is here which is the region. Coming through the thalamus
reach the visual system and basically all the information that
comes into the visual cortex. Which is where we presume the processing
that ends up with perception to occur comes through the thalamus into
the Primary visual cortex. Before getting into the details
of that I want you to be sure you recognize that there are at least
two other pathways that are shown in this dotted lines here and here. But don’t concern perceptions so the reason that super [INAUDIBLE]
pathway Is called what it is. It's taken as primary because it's
the root from the eye to what we perceive, what we end up seeing, and that's of
course what the course is mainly about, what we're going to be talking about. But the visual system does
a lot more than this. The information from the retina
passes to two other centers. The first of these Is called the superior colliculus, and it's here. The colliculus means little hill. These are two hills on the dorsal surface
of the mid brain and the brain stem. And their concerned with eye movements. So, I guess it should be obvious
that this is a big part of vision. I mean when something happens
in visual space you want to turn your body and
your eyes in particular, you want to turn towards the source of that
happening and see what's going on there. So you have to do this by movements that are coordinated
between the left and the right eye. And the rather complicated
circuitry that does this is information from the retina that
reaches the superior colliculi. As I said, these two little bumps on
the back surface of the mid brain so their concern with coordinating eye movements
with what's going on in visual space. With body movements,
with reflexes that keep your eyes trained on something if you want
to follow a moving object and so on. There are many facets that
the superior is concerned with. The other pathway that is not
the primary visual pathway but very important is the autonomic pathway
that controls the pupillary light reflex, so it's this pathway shown
in the dotted line here. And this is going to an autonomic
nucleus again in the midbrain region that is concerned
with pupilary dilation. So you probably noticed that when
you're looking at the mirror you shine a flashlight in your eye
the pupil constricts. And it constricts a lot of strongly and obviously in the presence of light or
dilate in the presence of darkness. Why is that? The reason is that when you operate in
different amounts of light as we talked about last time there's a huge range of
light from star light to bright sun light. You don't want the apparatus in the retina
damaged by to much light coming in. You want to modulate the amount of
light coming in and by Contracting or dilating the pupil and that's done by the nucleus that receives information
from the retinal started line pathway. And dilates or contracts the pupil
according to the level of ambient light. So let's go back to a little bit different
view of the primary visual pathway, which is again,
the eye going to the thalamus. And from the thalamus to the visual
cortex, and talk in a little bit more detail about each of these three
stations in the primary visual pathway. So what I've added to this diagram, you
can think of this as a piece of paper, or an object in visual space, half of
which is blue and half of which is red. Think of a piece of paper
colored in that way. And imagine further that you're looking at
a central point on that piece of paper. And my reason for emphasizing this,
and this is really the visual field. It's an object in the visual
field that you're looking at and you're looking at a particular point. By focusing the line of sight, remember,
coming to the phobia from the two eyes, you're focusing that
on a particular point. So, what's color coded in the rest
of the visual system in the red and the purple is the pathway that
the information on the right, and left side of this piece of paper
take in getting your cortex and vision perception that follows. So this is visual space. This is an object in visual space,
but you'll see by the color coding in a primary visual pathway that
it's a little bit complicated. And the bottom line is that all of the
information on one side of visual space, let's say the right side of visual space
on this piece of paper that you're looking at, goes to different
sides of the two retinas. So, the blue information coming from the
object in visual space goes to this side of this retina, and
this side of this retina. And that information needs to be brought
together, and it is brought together by having the information cross at this
region that's called the optic chasm. So that all of the blue information
comes to the same thalamus, and from the thalamus,
on to the visual cortex. So you're keeping the right
side of space together, and you're keeping it together through the
stations of the primary visual pathway. Conversely, for the left side,
that information is going to this side of this eye's retina to this side of this
eye's retina as this color coding shows. And again crossing the red stuff is
crossing at the eye optic chiasm, or not in this case in
this eye on the same side, reaching the thalamus and
hence keeping all this stuff. On the other side of visual space, on
the other side of this piece of paper that you're looking at together
in the opposite hemisphere. So, this seems like a crazy
way of doing vision. We talked last time about the odd way that the retina was set up with
the photoreceptors at the back of the eye. The information from light going
through all the junk that's in front of the photoreceptors. And the reason why that was
having to do with retinal rod and cone receptor metabolism. Here's another thing that
seems odd to say the least. I mean, why would you want to have the
information crossing at the optic chiasm and reaching the hemispheres
in this rather strange way. Why wouldn't you want to keep
the information from one eye going to one hemisphere and
the other eye going to another hemisphere. Well lots of animals in
fact are set up like that, animals with eyes on
the sides of their heads. Horses, cows, for example that
are wall-eyed don't have this crossing or at least they have much
less of this crossing. And the question arises from primates
like us and other non-human primates. Why is this? Well, the short answer is
that nobody really knows. The best guess is that this has to do with
the course of evolution from our fishy ancestors way back when
who climbed out on land, but when they were in the sea they used
a tail flip response to avoid predators. And people who've looked carefully at the
tail flip response have shown that it's much more effective if the information goes to the opposite side
of visual system in fish. And the general idea is that
the evolutionary carry over into us from the tail
flip affecting this to our other strangely laid out visual
system is on this evolutionary basis. You probably are aware that
many people have pointed out that evolution is a tinkering process. It's not logical. It's just using whatever works and carrying on whatever works into
the next evolutionary stage. So we're presumably the inheritors of
this way that fissures behave, but the answer for why this setup of
the visual system is the way it is is just a best guess about that.
